---
title: <Climate claim analysis: Exaggerated Code Red>
layout: default
nav_order: 1
---

The article I chose to further investigate was #2 on the above list, “‘Code Red’ Overstates Actual Findings of IPCC Climate Report and Trends in Extreme Weather Events.” The main message of this article is that the most recent IPCC report is not synonymous with the “code red” distinction often used in the mainstream media in reference to the likely climate catastrophe looming on the horizon. I found the rhetoric of this article concerning, particularly the complete opposition of the author to the urgency of the current global situation. I think this mentality is not just incorrect but dangerous, for this reason I thought it important to delve further into the argument presented in the article. 
Firstly, this article was written by a Canadian group called “The Friends of Science Society,” a group of scientists that believe that the sun is the sole driver of climate change, not carbon dioxide (Friends of Science, 2021). They conduct no original research and rather they review published works seeking to disprove findings that are counter to their belief about the causative role of the sun, subsequently educating the public in a manner that borders on persuasive. This article was written by an individual belonging to the Friends of Science Society, Michelle Stirling, who happens to also be the communications director for the organization. Based on her LinkedIn profile, she is not a climate scientist, nor has she received any formal education in a related field. With respect to the sources of information the author used to support their opinion, there was no formal works cited consisting of primary resources, instead the in-text hyperlinks were to a multitude of secondary and even tertiary sources like newsletters, YouTube videos, third party organizations like CLINTEL, and magazines, with tweets representing the bulk of the sources. In this article critiquing the accuracy of the IPCC report, the actual report is not cited at all, let alone any works of peer-reviewed scientific research. The references of this piece alone suggest that it is not reliable, rather this article is essentially an amalgamation of opinions from other, non reputable sources. 
The arguments of the article did not fare any better following deeper investigation. The article references a popular author, Ted Norhaus, who has no formal science education but enough to apparently say with certainty on Twitter that the two degree cap on warming is delusional and has no factual basis. This opinion directly opposes the findings of accredited sources like NASA (NASA, 2021), not to mention the IPCC itself (IPCC, 2021). The majority of climate scientists are in agreement that beyond 2, or even 1.5 degrees of warming a number of feedback loops could be triggered, the consequences of which are unknown, potentially irreversible, and may lead to devastating effects on all inhabitants of Earth (IPCC, 2021). Criticisms are present in the article regarding the focus of the IPCC report on policy and political mobilization more so than science, however given the pressing nature of the situation, local government intervention and intergovernmental collaboration is absolutely necessary if society is to keep warming below two degrees. Also the article made it unclear as to which IPCC report they were referring to, if it was the summary for policymakers, of course an emphasis would be placed on policy. Two different sources are present in the article that disagree with the plausibility of the hockey-stick graph, a well known figure displaying the average hemispheric temperature records over the past thousand years. Despite being considered controversial and statistically insignificant by some parties in the past, the hockey-stick graph remains a valuable metric to communicate the unprecedented nature of the warming trend of the last several decades and is substantiated by proxy evidence obtained and collated from diverse records of temperature like tree-rings, corals, and ice cores (IPCC, 2021). 
In summary, this article was riddled with bias and inaccuracies resulting in the final product more akin to a subjective opinion piece than a work of nonfiction. While the sober assessment of humanity’s future presented by the IPCC report is a harsh reality, fear is not a valid reason to misinform the public, as now more than ever we need to act as a unified front to stand any chance at persevering amidst the climate crisis industry has caused.

